---
layout: post
title: Plateau
tags: ["sim_racing"]
sticky: false
hidden: false
---

There's a saying in racing that goes something like, "Finding tenths is harder than finding seconds."  The concept is that when you first start doing something you usually make massive improvements in a relatively short period of time.  The first round of golf I played when I was a kid I shot a 90-something for 9 holes.  Two weeks later I was shooting in the 60s.  Once I got into the 30s (a couple years later) it became nearly impossible to shave off a stroke or two.

Last October I bought my first-ever gaming PC and started sim racing in earnest.  For a couple months prior I had been playing Dirt Rally 2.0 a bit on Xbox and also played a bit of Assetto Corsa Competizione (ACC).  But I wasn't too serious about ACC because there was really no decent multiplayer/online racing options with the Xbox.  So I took the plunge and bought a PC.  I wanted to build my own system, but finding a GPU not in a prebuilt PC was pretty impossible so I had to buy a ready-made system.  I started learning tracks and how to drive around them without crashing.  I was slow, but motivated to get better so I kept practicing, watching others race via streams on Twitch and YouTube, and racing myself in a bunch of LFM hourly races.  After a few months I joined the Sim Racing 604 (now called North American Sim Racing Series) rookie league and got even more into it.

Fast-forward a year and I feel like I've hit the point where I'm a decent driver -- I can confidently race closely with others and sometimes have OK pace.  I'm definitely not near alien pace, but I'm OK with that.  But getting quicker is getting harder so I'm having to put more thought into how I improve and also get more systematic about how I'm going about things.  I'm sure someone has researched this a lot and there is a term for it, but I think there's a point in the improvement continuum where many people give up because they plateau.  It's easy to get frustrated when you've become used to seeing continual improvement and then you don't.  Or, if you do get some improvement, you're finding it takes a lot more work.  And this is where people tend to quit.  (I struggle with this every time I re-start trying to learn the guitar.)