---
layout: post
title: Plateau
tags: ["sim_racing"]
sticky: false
hidden: false
---

There's an old racing cliche that goes something like, "Finding tenths is harder than finding seconds."  The concept is that when you first start doing something you usually make massive improvements in a relatively short period of time.  Like the first round of golf I played when I was in junior high I shot a 90-something for 9 holes.  Two weeks later I was shooting in the 60s.  Once I got into the 30s (a couple years later) it became nearly impossible to shave off a stroke or two.

Last October I bought my first-ever gaming PC and started sim racing in earnest.  For a couple months prior I had been playing Dirt Rally 2.0 a bit on Xbox and also tested out Assetto Corsa Competizione (ACC).  But I wasn't too serious about ACC because there weren't any decent multiplayer/online racing options with the Xbox.  So I took the plunge and bought a PC.  I wanted to build my own system, but finding an affordable standalone GPU was nigh impossible so I got a Corsair prebuilt.  I started the tedious process of learning tracks and how to drive around them without crashing.  I was slow, but motivated to get better so I kept practicing, watching others race via streams on Twitch and YouTube.  I graduated to doing some LFM hourly races and after a few months I joined the Sim Racing 604 (now called North American Sim Racing Series -- NASRS) rookie league.

Fast-forward a year and I feel like I've hit the point where I'm a decent driver -- I can confidently race closely with others and sometimes have OK pace.  I've done a lot of LFM races and did a NASRS season in the silver class.  I'm definitely not near alien pace and I'm OK with that.  But getting quicker is getting harder so I'm having to put more thought into how I improve and also get more systematic about how I'm going about things.  I'm sure someone has researched this and there is a term for it, but it seems like there's a specific point in the improvement continuum for any activity where many people give up because their results start plateauing.  It's easy to get frustrated when you've become used to seeing continual improvement and then you don't.  Or, if you do get some improvement, you're finding it takes a lot more work.  This is the exact point where things start getting really hard/frustrating and so it's where people tend to quit.  I'm a textbook example of this with learning how to play the guitar.  I'm good at the basics and feeling comfortable with them, but once it's time to really dig into the hard stuff, I start really struggling and tend to stop for a while.  When I pick it back up I basically need to start over from scratch.

Anyway, that's a long-winded way of saying I'm hitting a skills plateau of sorts with sim racing.  But, I'm plugged into a good league and am meeting some great people and have good racing options between that and LFM.  I'm excited to see if I can push through and continue to keep getting faster and learning racecraft.